When discussing UFO legacy programs, I aim to expose any clandestine black-budget U.S.
government military intelligence operation, partnering with defense contractors, federally
funded research and development centers, and university-affiliated research centers engaging
with non-human technology. These programs seem to take many forms, including crash recovery of
non-human vehicles, material exploitation of technologies of unknown origin, reverse
engineering of anomalous craft, and construction of copycat vehicles famously known as alien
reproduction vehicles, ARVs. On this channel, we have discussed myriad major range and test
facility bases and defense laboratories and centers where such programs are likely located.
We have also discussed at length contractors, FFRDCs, and UARCs that are alleged to operate
alongside the CIA and NSA across Army, Navy, and Air Force UFO programs. When such clandestine and
secretive operations to master non-human technology have led to, in David Grush's words,
a multi-decade secret Cold War, where might these programs be located? The logistics of
maintaining secrecy and strict need to know access for unacknowledged special access programs focused
on anomalous research, development, test, and evaluation of non-human technologies and storage
of non-human craft and possibly biologics are likely tremendous. For this reason, we must look
underground and evaluate the decades of rumors and testimonies of UFOs and deep underground
military bases, or DUMMS. DUMMS have served as a continuous focus of this channel with recent
discussion and direct investigation into dugway-proving ground. The United States premier chemical
and biological testing range and its alleged 1,300 square mile subterranean facility and
remote entrance in the desert. For this investigation, we will be continuously referencing the work of
Dr. Richard Sotter and his three masterpieces titled Underground Bases and Tunnels, What is the
Government Trying to Hide? Hidden in Plain Site Beyond the X-Files and Underground and Underwater
Bases. These three dense pieces give us keen context into subterranean bases in the form of
stringent fact-based analysis through publicly available records, FOIA documents, declassified
documents, and the occasional witness testimony. Deep underground military bases do indeed exist.
This is fact and we will explore this fact today, but do these sites engage with UFO legacy programs?
And if so, which DoD sites and what do they do? And could the decades of rumors regarding underground
tunnels connecting these clandestine sites through an internal rail system possibly be true?
Hey guys, it's UAP Gerb and thank you so very much for joining me today as we embark into the
world of the subterranean to investigate DUMs and UFOs. The subject of UFO legacy sites embedded
into mountains with hidden hangars sequestered a mile beneath the Earth's surface or hidden
anywhere out of the public and satellite view has long been a talking point of this channel
in my investigations. Today, we finally look below the Earth's surface to evaluate the existence,
feasibility, and operations of UFO legacy programs and deep underground military bases.
To borrow from the title of the first chapter of Dr. Richard Sotter's Underground Bases and Tunnels,
deep underground military bases are indeed real. Throughout this project, I will be interchangeably
using the terms DUM and subterranean facility or stiff. The name said to me by multiple veterans
who have traveled to such underground locations. And speaking of, I should mention, I have spoken
to nearly half a dozen former military personnel who have traveled to stiffs across the country.
I try to shy away from inserting first hand source testimony and anecdotes into my videos and let
evidence and research speak for itself, so I will interject with these first hand testimonies when
and if necessary. In a 1989 speech titled Underground Facilities for Defense, Experience
and Lessons, Deputy Director of Engineering and Construction for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Lloyd A. Dusha said, quote, After World War II, political and economic factors changed the
underground construction picture and caused a renewed interest to think underground. As a result
of this interest, the Corps of Engineers became involved in the design and construction of some
very complex and interesting military projects, end quote. In the same talk, Dusha would then go
on to exclaim, quote, Although the conference program indicates the topic to be underground
facilities for defense, experience and lessons, I must deviate a little because several of the
most interesting facilities that have been designed and constructed by the Corps are still classified,
end quote. Acknowledged military subterranean facilities do indeed exist. Publicly known sites
include the Norad Cheyenne Mountain Complex buried deep under Colorado Springs. This enormous
installation built to monitor North American missile threats sits 2,000 feet underground
and spans 5.1 acres, featuring six three-story high and 40 foot wide tunnels and 15 three-story
buildings made of steel plates. And these are just the acknowledged portions of the base.
Additionally, the Raven Rock Complex, aka Site R, serves as a secure underground command center or
backup Pentagon and is shrouded in mystery. This site under Fort Detrick, Maryland includes
accommodations for 3,000 people, has an inbuilt medical and dental clinic, fire department,
post office and five acknowledged three-story buildings. The secrets Raven Rock must hold
are endless, but existing acknowledged dumps are not the focus of today's investigation.
Instead, we plan to pursue dumps that operate as UFO legacy program locations and explore the
feasibility of decades of rumors of hundreds, if not thousands of miles of underground tunnels
and railroads connecting deep underground UFO legacy operations. To once again quote, U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers Deputy Director for Engineering and Construction Lloyd A. Dusha, when speaking
about the Corps' involvement in the 1960s construction of the Cheyenne site, quote.
As stated earlier, there are other projects of similar scope, which I cannot identify,
but which include multiple chambers up to 50 feet wide and 100 feet high,
using the same excavation procedure mentioned for the NORAD facility, end quote.
After all, according to a 1985 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers report titled
Literature Survey of Underground Construction Methods for Application to Harden Facilities,
STIFs can be built anywhere with the right amount of money and in myriad types of
structures utilizing deep shaft structures and facilities tunneled into mountain sides.
The report even states, quote, since adequate technology is available to construct hardened
underground facilities under virtually any ground conditions, the main constraint in
construction projects remains economic viability rather than technical feasibility, end quote.
As we know from David Grush and multiple other sources and testimonies, UFO legacy programs
operate on the U.S. Black budget. Untraceable, deep-sixed money and contracts buried within
special access, controlled access and unacknowledged special access programs.
From the excellent work of Catherine Austin Fitz, I mention often, we also know that as much as $21
trillion in unauthorized spending has occurred between 1998 and 2015. And this is just within
the DOD and Department of Housing and Urban Development, much of which Fitz believed was
designated for clandestine military R&D. Publicly denied UFO, research development,
test and evaluation underground locations would absolutely classify as such. Dumbs for clandestine
and unacknowledged use is also a practice very much currently in play. One such example is
Warrenton U.S. Army Training Center located in the northern Virginia town of Warrenton. The book
The Secret Team, the CIA and its allies in control of the world by Fletcher Prouty, identified a
highly secretive underground installation that serves as a federal relocation center by an
unknown agency. This was confirmed in an inquiry magazine article titled Going Underground by
Robert Walters, which plainly states that U.S. Army Warrenton Training Center is a CIA covert
facility. Additionally, there is the highly secretive U.S. Navy underground facility in the
mountains of West Virginia near Sugar Grove. This location is an underground site run by the Navy
for the National Security Agency, so the NSA and CIA already have a traceable interest in using U.S.
military bases underground facilities as a cover for unknown usage in operations. So before discussing
much of the testimony of UFOs and Dumbs, let's quickly touch on the reality and history of these
impressive, often unacknowledged sites. The inception of Dumbs in the United States can
actually be traced back to the Nazis, an operation paperclip, the famous program to recruit
Nazi scientists, engineers, and technicians into U.S. government employment. Near the end of World
War II, the Nazis had begun utilization of what we might call Dumbs. In the book Lucky Forward,
The History of Patent's Third Army, Colonel Robert S. Allen detailed Allied discoveries of
Nazi underground bases, quote, the underground installations were amazing. They were literally
subterranean towns. There were four in and around Ordruf. None were natural caverns or mines. All
were man-made military installations. The horror camp had provided the labor. An interesting feature
of the construction was the absence of any spoil. It had been carefully scattered into hills miles
away, end quote. Some Nazi installations were over 50 feet underground, comprised of several
miles of two to three story facilities. The sites were arranged like wheels with spokes designed
with reinforced concrete. The Nazis designed such locations as Ordruf to house Nazi high command
after the bombing of Berlin, but never got the chance to populate the facility. We additionally
have the Regenwurm Lager, or Earthworm Camp in Poland. This Nazi sprawling underground complex
beneath West Poland's full extent is still unknown today. The site featured miles of underground
tunnels and electrical train lines connecting bunkers, fortifications, and other critical
military facilities. This sounds familiar, no? Two declassified documents can be discovered
dating back to 1947 regarding the aforementioned Operation Paperclip. Featured in the documents
are requests by Air Material Command for a quote unquote requirement of four German technicians
to consult on a planned underground plant program. One man named was Xavier Dorsch,
director of the TOT organization in the closing of World War Two. This was the Nazi's equivalent
of the US Navy Seabees, or US Army Corps of Engineers, but not part of formal German military
structure. The founder of this organization, Fritz Tott, designed the famous German Autobahn
Highway System. Towards the tail end of World War Two, Dorsch had helped with developing a series
of massive underground industrial manufacturing facilities to hide from Allied bombing raids.
It is indeed quite possible he also aided on the Regenwurm Lager and Ordruf.
Documents and research show Dorsch once briefed the Americans after he was captured in 1945 and
again in 1949, we do not know the full extent to which he aided in these programs. These massive
Nazi underground industrial manufacturing facilities possibly give us our first look
into UFO legacy programs and dums. I have covered on this channel the 1933 Magenta,
Italy UFO crash retrieval, a case whose validity is strongly supported by David Grush.
You said it's a 90 year cover up. Just about, yeah. 90 years. 1933 was the first recovery in
Europe in Magenta, Italy. They recovered a partially intact vehicle. In this case,
the Nazis purportedly took control of a crashed lenticular disk from the Italians in 1943 before
being recovered by the Americans post war. Hans Kamler was a Nazi engineer behind construction
of numerous concentration camps, including Auschwitz and led myriad Nazi secret weapons projects.
Kamler would have indeed been one of chief scientists and engineers to study a recovered
lenticular craft due to his unrivaled command over Nazi secret weapons programs.
Kamler went missing near the tail end of World War Two. However, documents prove rather
convincingly this evil engineer was taken alive into US custody. Albert Speer, Nazi and Reich
Minister of Armaments and War Production claimed in April 1945, Kamler informed him he had business
to offer the Americans. OSS agent Donald W. Richardson seemingly confirmed this by stating
70 years after he still couldn't fully speak on interrogating Kamler. But the Nazis had
brought treasure to the US that, quote, served the development of armament platforms for the Cold
War and for the future, end quote. Under Kamler's command, numerous underground tunnels and bases
existed, employing German companies to develop and build parts for advanced aircraft and secret
weapons programs. Kamler is even said to have stashed treasures and documents regarding his
think tanks top secret documents in a facility underground in the woods of Czechoslovakia.
According to Hidden Nazi by Dan Ruder, 44 years after Operation Hidden documents to retrieve
these stashed top secret documents, an American team from Lawrence Livermore Labs and Los Alamos
Labs to FFRDCs went to a new underground cavern that had not been emptied at the end of World
War Two called Mednick Hill. What was found here was, quote, the key to what was hidden at the
previous site, end quote. It goes without saying it stands to reason Kamler conducted early iterations
of UFO legacy programs underneath Mednick Hill, as well as his numerous underground locations and
tunnels, and that Xavier Dorsch was a key engineer in constructing these facilities. With Dorsch being
requested by air material command and Kamler being more than likely secretly smuggled by the Americans,
these two men could very well be the key architects of modern day US UFO and dumb legacy programs.
I am no expert in history, so to learn more about Kamler, I strongly recommend watching
the documentary The Two Lives of Hans Kamler. Later in this project, we will see even more ties
between Nazi Germany, Dumbs, and Paperclip than in the form of Maglev train systems.
On numerous occasions in the 1950s, the United States proposed massive underground facilities
that seemingly disappeared from public light. It is unknown if many of these facilities were
built or not. One example can be traced to 1957 to Green Mountain outside Huntsville, Alabama.
Huntsville is deeply enshrouded in US anti-gravity research, but we are looking elsewhere.
Two articles in 1957 reported the US Army was planning to build a rocket factory inside of
Green Mountain. The plan was proposed by the American Machine and Foundry Company, Redstone
Arsenal, and the Army Ballistic Missile Agency. This location was slated to have a sort of subterranean
junior Pentagon, where elaborate headquarters would be installed to direct the defense of the
southern US from enemy attack. Again, it is unknown if this location was ever built. However,
such discussion of a junior Pentagon illustrated early private military cooperation, a theme we
will touch on much more much later. Analysis of US military and underground studies additionally
allows us valuable insights into DUMMS. Take the RAND Corporation for example. An FFRDC I have
spoken about ad nauseam is a primary semi-government institution up to its eyeballs in UFO legacy
programs. RAND Corporation was established in 1948 and grew out of Army Air Force Project RAND in
1946. Project RAND sought to carry out long-range research projects of interest to the Air Force.
In the 1950s, USAF and RAND began working on the question of underground-based construction and
organized various symposiums. Let's analyze a resulting 1959 publication, Deep Underground
Construction. The purpose of such a symposium, according to the chairman, was to discuss,
quote, the problems of protecting military installations located deep underground or
under mountains, end quote, in the event of nuclear war. The chairman also stated,
since 1957, the RAND corp had been, quote, actively investigating the need for a small
number of super hard, deep underground centers, end quote. Additionally, in 1960, RAND published
a study under USAF contract dealing 12 locations for underground sites. All sites were assumed to
be more than 1000 feet deep. Of specific interest here is site three in Santa Barbara, California.
Santa Barbara is located just over 100 miles from the Antelope Valley, California. We will discuss
later. Research suggests a major network of UFO-focused stiff facilities exists interconnected
under the antelope. Site three is also located less than 100 miles away from Los Angeles,
where a tremendous amount of DoD research development tests and evaluation laboratories lie.
We have already mentioned the US Army Corps of Engineer giving in 1989 a quite frank admission
of classified underground facilities. An outside of the 1987 US Army Corps of Engineer report detailing
construction of Dumbs boils down to cost. In 1959 to 1961, the Army Corps of Engineer published a
five-part training manual titled, Design of Underground Installations in Rock. This startling
series assumes the pre-existence of underground facilities. The report states, quote,
vital government installations have been placed underground as exemplified by the Richie Project,
end quote. Many of these facilities were designed as command and control centers and survival bunkers
for nuclear attacks. These are known as continuity of government sites. Raven Rock qualifies as one
such continuity of government or COG DUM. Design of underground installations in rock additionally
makes some statements of extreme relevance to the testimonies of Dumbs and UFOs. Some installations
listed by the Army were to be shallow, while, quote, more important equipment and facilities
essential to defense may be installed in deeper workings that are likely to be long and tunnel-like,
occupying one or several stories, end quote. The report detailed enormous underground facilities
featuring 50 by 50 feet tunnels and chambers as much as 100 feet high, even stating, quote,
truck or rail traffic might be important, end quote. The Army even cautioned, quote,
landscape scars, roads and portal structures, aka entrances, should be as inconspicuous as possible.
Camouflage should be considered, end quote. This is of extreme consequence when discussing
testimonies such as MS, who detailed the entrance to the Dugway Stiff as a small building in the
middle of nowhere. In 1963, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers published a manual titled,
Utilization of Nuclear Power Plants in Underground Installations. This manual discussed
self-contained nuclear-powered underground facilities with button-up diesel secondary
systems. Critically, in 1964, the Army Corps of Engineers or COE proposed 12 massive structures
to be built up to 4,000 feet underground. There are two sites here of massive importance to our
investigation, one facility below Yuma County, Arizona, to be accessed via a vertical or incline
shaft. Such entry points are common amongst claims of UFO dum, such as the Dugway Dumb,
whose entrance is purported to be a vertical elevator shaft. In Stephen Greer's DPI archive,
who fans of this channel will know I have extracted a tremendous amount of information
and worthwhile investigation from, witness 10773 statement reads, quote,
nose of massive research and storage facility, material of unknown origin at Yuma Proving Ground,
end quote, fascinating connection here. Yuma Test Center is also home to Yuma Proving Ground,
a U.S. Army major range and test facility base, similar to Dugway Proving Ground's Army MRTFB,
the West Desert Test Center. Yuma Proving Ground is also run by Army Test and Evaluation Command.
Indeed, it is no stretch to assume if a stiff exists under one of these Army MRTFBs,
an equally impressive facility likely exists below the other.
Second here is Site III in Inyo County, California, to be accessed via incline shaft.
Inyo County resides on the inside boundary of China Lake Naval Weapons Testing Facility.
China Lake is one of the Navy's premier major range and test facility base and a location
spoken of on myriad occasions as an underground legacy program location.
China Lake really needs no introduction, but stay tuned as we will discuss China Lake
in much more detail along with Antelope Valley. But quickly to mention, Dr. Richard Sotter
received testimony from a Navy contact who served at China Lake. The witness confirmed
an impressively large and deep installation, claiming the facility extends one mile deep
and contains, quote, weapons more powerful than nuclear weapons, end quote.
Alongside the US Army's COE, the US Navy is also deeply entwined with underground and possibly
undersea bases, but that's another story for another day. In 1972, Naval Facilities
Engineering Command issued a report titled, Sub-Surface Deployment of Naval Facilities,
discussing several Navy installations to be placed underground. These include
administration, medical, aircraft maintenance, ammo storage, and miscellaneous storage facilities.
The US Navy Seabees additionally maintain underground installations between the
Presidential Camp David and CIA facility Camp Peary, which we will discuss later on.
In 1947, US Air Material Command requested Nazi technicians for construction of
underground facilities. In 1989, Lloyd Dusha admitted numerous underground installations
existed and were classified. This means stiffs of interest were built from 1947 to 1949,
a 42-year period. We can also assume some facilities were built before 1961 where the
five-part Army-COE document assumes the existence of such facilities.
One such example here may be Groom Lake Area 51 that was built in the 50s on the site of a former
Boron mine. After all, a 1991 DARPA report details secret cavities may be found in
conjunction with underground mines. However, due to the existence of literature on described future
plans for massive bases post-1961 that really hold our interest, we can assume from 1961 to 1989
the majority of our stiffs of interest were constructed.
Dumbs are not a new subject to the study of UFOs or my channel. I myself have talked a tremendous
amount of the alleged DARSE Defense Advanced Research Center, a 10-story underground location
built under Area 51 relayed by USAF Master Sergeant Edgar Fouchet that dealt with alien
reproduction vehicles, including the TR-3B. I have also spoken on the enigmatic Northrop
Tahan, Lockheed Hellendale, and McDonnell Douglas RCS facilities that have since at least 1987
been accused by excellent researchers such as Bill Hamilton as housing UFO legacy programs,
and don't worry, we will touch on these facilities in much more detail later.
Quite recently, I've discussed the Dugway Dumb as relayed by Witness MS and even provided images
and details of the exact alleged entrance to the facility, which exists as an elevator shaft
concealed by a tiny building in the middle of nowhere Dugway near German village.
As strange as that might seem, a 1991 paper issued by DARPA, the Defense Advanced Research
Project Agency and US Army Missile Command titled Development of Inspection and Detection
Techniques for Hidden Cavities. This document served to train field nuclear weapons inspectors to
identify underground clandestine test complexes in developing nuclear nations. The report plainly
states buildings of various size can provide cover for shafts or other openings to a secret
underground cavity, sounds similar to MS, no? And lastly, I have relayed the testimony of Randy
Anderson in the underground facility under the Naval Surface Warfare Center crane housing the
alleged Off-World Technologies Division. The subject of underground UFO legacy programs rose
to prominence in 1989 with the claims of Bob Lazar and reverse engineering under Site 4,
as well as the Dulce base fiasco where starting in 1979, Paul Benowitz was fed disinformation
of a joint human extraterrestrial base under Dulce, New Mexico. Both S4 and Dulce are worthy
of further investigation. In fact, I believe S4 to be a very real location, but due to the
controversy around these accounts, discussions of these sites will be largely omitted from today's
discussions. The first true mention of DUMs and UFOs I can find is from Look Magazine in an article
titled Is This The Real Flying Saucer? dated 1955. The article discussed a Canadian company
constructing a flying saucer while also depicting a facility built underneath a hill with a
vertical shaft to the surface allowing the departure of flying saucers. Further rumors of UFOs and
DUMs wouldn't really arise until the 1970s, so this article is indeed intriguing. Leonard
Stringfield's UFO crash retrieval Status Reports 1-7 is a body of work I often praise extensively.
After all, Stringfield is in my opinion one of the greatest UFO investigators of all time.
His work on UFO retrieval incidents and operations spanned from 1978 to 1994 and
relays some of the earliest mentions I can find of deep underground legacy operations.
Let's briefly explore a few. One such intriguing report is an anonymous letter
Stringfield received 12 February 1974. The letter highlighted secret research on UFOs
taking place at a secret underground complex below Gray Army Airfield and Fort Hood, Texas.
According to the witness, the complex is shared with ICBM silos built into a small mountain.
This is fascinating as later in the project we will discuss how numerous DUMs were constructed
primarily as ICBM sites. The witness described a section of the mountain would open up onto a
jet interceptor runway, which was once accidentally observed by a private pilot making a forced
landing over this restricted air corridor. This underground facility, according to the witness,
was tied with NORAD in Cheyenne Mountain, Colorado, Wright Patterson Air Force Base,
Ohio, Tinker Air Force Base, Oklahoma, Carswell Air Force Base, Texas, and others.
And this is where the anonymous account gets very interesting. The witness stated the complex
employed a squadron of unmarked helicopters dispatched quote when the need arises and quote
codenamed the blue boys. This sounds incredibly similar to UFO recovery rapid reaction units
I have spoken about in numerous crash retrieval cases such as the Blue Berets in the 1965
Kecksburg, Pennsylvania case. The choppers additionally carried a new type of missile the
source had been informed had been used on UFOs but a new system had been in development which
would be far more efficient. This was an electronic warfare system designed to disable UFOs under
quote unquote controlled conditions. This letter would arrive to Stringfield's desk in 1974 but
now in 2025 we have heard the whistleblower testimony of Jake Barber where he discussed
EMP type weapons designed to bring down UFOs over the enigmatic range. In your time in deployment
you met certain people from an aerospace company, didn't you? Yes I did. Now it's also part of the
constraints you operate under that you can't name that aerospace company. There's no good reason to
name them even if I wasn't constrained. What were they doing there? Well they were supporting us with
some new weapons technology that could be used to disable vehicles and aircraft. I can disclose
this my understanding is that they were essentially using it was actually I think it's a matter of
public record that microwave weapons pulse microwave weapons were being used at that time.
Correct there were some early prototypes that were being used at that time and I met individuals
that were there representing the companies that were providing that service to the government,
made some friends and those relationships led to opportunities later in the California desert
where I began my journey. Leonard would actually see a volume of reports regarding
underground complexes at Fort Hood including a USAF Lieutenant Colonel who relate to him in 1975
of an underground project that took place at Fort Hood. In 1976 Stringfield met an individual
from McGregor Texas who claimed his father had worked beneath Fort Hood on the UFO program.
This second-hand witness relayed a quote from his father stating quote the technology that is being
applied in this underground complex would remind someone of a science fiction thriller. It is
unbelievable what they know and what they can do from this area. Spanning the late 70s into the 80s
Stringfield received myriad reports of an underground facility beneath Wright Patterson
Air Force Base housing preserved non-human biologics. One such account was relayed from
witness JK who worked at a Nike missile site in Wilmington, Ohio. JK claimed to have seen nine
alien bodies under Wright Pad in 1966 encased in glass frozen to preserve. JK also claimed
recovered craft were housed at McDill Air Force Base Langley Air Force Base in Seymour Johnson
Navy Training Center outside of Norfolk, Virginia. These locations purportedly all housed craft and
sometimes biologics and underground hangers to conceal material from military and politicians.
Stringfield heard similar accounts of biologics under Wright Pat relayed second hand from one
TS who allegedly witnessed bodies in the early 1950s. TS were amongst a handful that relayed
such stories. Leonard Stringfield would also once receive an anonymous undated letter from a
U.S. airman who is stationed at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico. The source relayed rumors and
stories of UFOs being stored in the Manzano storage area in remote Kirtland. Remember if you will,
Kirtland is home to Sandia National Labs, FFRDC, which ranging from the interplanetary
phenomenon unit report to accusations of reverse engineering a propulsion device for the TR-3B
by Edgar Fouchet has stood as a high probability candidate in UFO RDT&E programs.
Manzano Mountain Underground Facility is no myth either. While researching for his 2001 book
Underwater and Underground Bases, solder received FOIA documents of two underground
facilities below Manzano. While these documents of course say nothing about UFO storage,
it is fascinating to see solder confirm the rumors of an underground installation beneath
Kirtland. Lastly, I want to reference an anonymous letter to Leonard Stringfield I have covered before.
This is dated March 14, 1975, which claims to recount the testimony of one Lieutenant Colonel
Sims, Asunim. I previously discussed this letter in reference to the project on ED. An Edwards
Air Force Base 412th Test Group Electronic Warfare Test Director who claimed to the existence of a
joint UFO reverse engineering program operating between Edwards Air Force Base and the Nevada
Test and Training Range. Viewers of this channel will know I consider ED to be one of the most
critical UFO legacy witnesses of all time and as a quick side note, ED also referenced attending
the S-4 site. This letter was referenced due to the mention of Handscom Air Force Base in the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. An Air Base and University where ED worked from 2002 to 2005
on foreign military assets. Amongst the intriguing mentions of contractors, FFRDCs,
UARCs, and air bases involved in UFO research and investigation, the source relayed Lieutenant
Colonel Sims speaking of several computer banks hidden within underground installations scattered
across the US, housing sophisticated computer equipment, electronic instrumentation, and
mobile radar units. According to Sims, these underground installations employ, quote,
squadrons of unmarked helicopters which have sophisticated instrumentation on board that
are dispatched to areas of UFO activity to monitor these craft or airlift them out of the area if
one has malfunctioned, end quote. This sounds quite similar to the Blue Boy's rapid reaction unit
related to Stringfield, does it not? But perhaps we have other confirming evidence so let's also
reference the book Trinity's Children Living Along America's Nuclear Highways. The authors
of this book state, quote, there are more crazed supercomputers in New Mexico, an Air Force computer
expert once said than anywhere else. They're here at the Weapon Center referring to Kirtland,
they're across the street at Sandia, they're at Los Alamos up the highway, and they're at the,
quote, underground places nobody knows about. Intriguing as we already know Kirtland and by
extension Sandia employ at least two underground facilities in the Manzano Mountains. Los Alamos
National Labs additionally employs a deep underground installation. Dr. Sotter had quite
an interesting engagement with Los Alamos. He repeatedly attempted to FOIA the Department
of Energy for information on underground facilities and tunnels beneath Los Alamos.
The DOE continuously responded there were none. Eventually though, the DOE provided Sotter a
badly blurred phototastic copy of an article by Earl Zimmerman titled, LASL's Unusual Underground
Lab, which described an underground facility built in the late 1940s. This article was undated
and of uncertain origin, however Zimmerman can be found labeled as a press bureau member from 1963
to 1965 in a 2020 Los Alamos organizational chart. Dr. Sotter additionally met with a businessman
who relayed his experience in visiting Los Alamos in the company of a highly clear associate.
The businessman was privy to wherever his esteemed colleague went without question,
the individual claimed 75% of Los Alamos's facilities are underground and extend as far
as one mile underground. In relation to TUOs and UFOs, so far we have covered very real
stiffs under Kirtland slash Sandia and Los Alamos while also discussing the possible existence of
facilities existing under Wright Patterson, Fort Hood slash Gray Army airfield Yuma County,
China Lake as well as the Nevada test site under the Nevada test and training range.
Now onto one of the most critical areas of my research, the Antelope Valley, California.
For this section, we will reference the work of both Dr. Sotter as well as the late Bill Hamilton,
a tremendous UFO researcher. Hamilton served as a true pioneer of the field,
serving as the first researcher to ever produce the term and a public image of ARV,
and even handed incredible witnesses such as Mark McCandlish and Bill Uhouse to Stephen Greer.
Hamilton's excellent book, Cosmic Top Secret, an ultra rare early 1990s lecture recorded for VHS
titled UFOs and Underground Bases, offers us keen insights into Hamilton's research on
Dumbs and specific area of interest, the Antelope Valley. In fact, Hamilton produced a map
related to him by sources of connected underground UFO facilities in the American Southwest.
We will compare this map to existing DoD laboratories and RDT and E locations later
on in this video. China Lake Naval Air Station is also quite close to Antelope Valley, so we will
discuss that enigmatic facility here as well. Since the late 1980s, Hamilton's work focused on
Antelope Valley, California. Many will know this region as one of the chief centers of aerospace
technology, housing the infamous USAF Plant 42 Lockheed Skunkworks, the former Norton Air Force
Base, the legendary Edwards Air Force Base, major installations for Northrop Grumman,
Rockwell, and McDonnell Douglas, as well as numerous intriguing radar cross-section facilities
in the form of Northrop Tehan, Lockheed Hellendale, and McDonnell Douglas. I have spoken on all of
the aforementioned facilities and prior work. Palmdale, California within the Antelope has
served as an unrivaled US military slash private contractor classified aircraft production and
maintenance location. The region has produced many of the United States most famous advanced
aerospace platforms such as the RQ-4 Global Hawk, B-2 Spirit Bomber, B-21 Raider, F-117 Night Hawk,
and F-35 Lightning. The Antelope Valley and the City of Palmdale have also served as a
critical pillar of my research. Whether this be Norton Air Force Base serving as the location
were primary witness Brad S observed the Fluxliner Alien Reproduction Vehicle,
witness Ed disclosing his work for the 412th test group serving as test director for reverse
engineered vehicles out of Edwards. Edgar Fouchet, who stated pilots of the TR-3B reverse engineered
triangle ARV were plucked from the Edwards 412th Test Pilot School or the alleged project
red light out of Edwards which served to act alongside Area 51 to test reverse engineered
vehicles very similar to the claims of Ed. Antelope Valley is the most consequential location that
has ever come up in all of my research. The late Hamilton was obsessed with the radar cross-section
facilities mentioned above. Specifically the Northrop Tehan installation sometimes referred to as
the Tehachapi facility or Ant Hill. Due to the rumors of incredible amounts of underground tunnels
beneath the installation, in my video on Northrop I investigated this RCS facility in great detail.
Thanks to the research of Dr. Sotter we know the Northrop Tehan RCS does indeed have an underground
facility. Just as does Hellendale and McDonald Douglas, the question is how big, how deep,
and what do they do? Some rumors persist of up to 42 levels with underground tunnels connecting
the facility to Edwards and other installations. The concept of a corporate dumb should come as no
surprise to anyone. In 1981 the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, yes AT&T,
revealed several underground emergency centers. Believe it or not AT&T itself has been historically
implicated in non-human technology transfer but that is not our topic for today. These underground
centers exist 40 feet below ground and feature three story centers with data banks, dorms,
and kitchens. One such location is reported to exist in Catrone County, 180 miles near
Sandia National Labs. This is not surprising seen from 1949 to 1993 AT&T in its subsidiary
Western Electric ran Sandia National Labs at Kirtland at the order of President Harry S. Truman
for the Department of Energy. Indeed as recently as 1970 the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey
operated an emergency center 300 feet underground near Hudson, New York. This location that more
recently held corporate reports featured dining halls and 50 sleeping rooms for key company
officials. But back to Tehan and quickly for those who don't know what exactly is a radar cross-section
facility. To summarize these facilities utilize high frequency radio waves to test aircraft's radar
signatures. This military testing aids in the development of stealth technologies by reducing
radar cross-section. The site features large runways and pylons raised from underground on
concrete diamonds as mounting pads to blast aircraft and materials with radar. Many RCS
facilities including the Three and Antelope Valley saw construction during the Cold War.
This led the majority of the installation being built underground to hide RCS pylons equipment,
models, and technology away from Soviet spy satellites. Numerous researchers over the
years have accused the Northrop Lockheed and McDonnell Douglas RCS sites as integral legacy
program locations focused on the downing retrieval and storage of non-human craft.
The contentious Dr. Stephen Greer even claims to have both knowledge of the entrance for the
Ant Hill Dumb as well as personally been flown over these sites and observed the electromagnetic
pulse weapon systems that are used to down craft. Now interestingly the Senate Intelligence and
Armed Services Committee and other senior officials had no idea of this. The top people
and special forces who are outside this illegal black project system didn't know about it.
I had known about it since the 90s but I'd never of course flown directly over it because it's
classified airspace and very sensitive. So you can see what looks like a trough and a runway.
It's just where the man-made UFOs that we've been building since the 1954-55 come out.
They go up and they hover. They're silent. They're electro-gravidic anti-grab. The diamond on the
left you see that looks like a runway with a diamond. It's not a runway because they don't
need to run and get there's not an aerodynamic. They just go boom up but they're placed so different
diamonds. I have a whole series of video and pictures of these we don't have time to go through
and that's where they're put at various elevations and then struck with an electromagnetic
weapon to see if it's hard enough to withstand conflict, right?
When discussing the RCS facilities and in particular Hamilton's obsession with Tehan,
some may remember the XF-131 Super Sentinel. This incredible triangular ARV was drawn by
forensic artist Bill McDonald and later featured in season one of the X-Files.
According to McDonald, the craft design was relayed to him from two Northrop Tehan and
two Lockheed Hellendale engineers who were jaded from the intense secrecy from which they operated.
I personally have spoken to McDonald on numerous occasions regarding this triangular ARV out of
the Antelope Valley and put much credence into this testimony. For years Hamilton compiled first-hand
witness testimony regarding Antelope Valley and specifically the Northrop Tehachapi site.
Let's briefly investigate a few of these testimonies. A local man with property on 170th Street,
west of Tehan, reported to Hamilton of the ground opening like a missile silo where a flying saucer
took off. Edwards Air Force Office of Special Investigation silenced this witness. UFO researcher
Dr. Richard Boylan alongside the first-hand source of Bill McDonald have additionally accused Tehan
as a manufacturing site for reverse engineered vehicles including the X-F-131 Super Sentinel
and anti-gravity disc dubbed by Boylan the Great Pumpkin. A contractor named Chuck relayed his
experience digging the underground tunnels beneath the Ant Hill to Hamilton. This source claimed
tunnels in the Dumb had round doorways with few doors and red and green lights for ID and entry.
An intriguing source of Hamilton claimed to have worked on Project Star Talk at Tehan.
This project involved lasers in a big building underground for the purpose of constructing
systems to quote-unquote bring in UFOs. The source mentioned scalar technology, a concept Stephen
Greer would later on discuss for decades as a weapon source to down UFOs. The Star Talk informer
also claimed to work at McDonnell Douglas Stiff where he observed a UFO held in an underground
hangar. This name was very hard to make out by a 144p documentary but one Hamilton informer
went by the name Gobern who claimed to work at Tehan, Hellendale and the Nevada test and training
range. This source relayed to Hamilton he worked with alien technology that deeply frightened him.
According to the source on-site personnel would rotate every 14 to 16 days living and working
on site and there existed a command center under Haystack Butte which connected to the Ant Hill.
Hamilton had numerous other informers who would discuss experimental discs being flown out of
Edwards airfield, extraterrestrial discs being held under Edwards and underground UFO work below
a hangar on Edwards North Base. Many of these informants would discuss ground vehicles like
electric cars within the dumps and maglev train systems connecting the base to others. We will
of course discuss this much later on. From his data and sources Hamilton learned of a supposed
massive complex of underground facilities in the Antelope Valley engaged with UFO testing storage
and material exploitation. All connected via tunnels and transport systems these facilities
included Tahachapi, McDonnell Douglas, Hellendale, George Air Force Base Edwards, the NASA rocket
test site and China Lake. A network of joint USG and corporate facilities all connected in the
Antelope Valley dedicated to the storage and exploitation of UFOs has proven to be quite
a common theory since the late 80s and early 1990s work of Hamilton. I'd once again like to reference
Stephen Greer witness AH. I have discussed in multiple projects AH a Boeing insider with numerous
connections to UFO legacy programs has historically and likely to this day served as a primary source
of information for Greer. In his 2000 tape testimony AH delivered to Greer much of the
information Greer still discusses to this day including reference to a massive facility
existing below Dugway. AH additionally discussed a complex of underground facilities near Anzo
California just south of Antelope Valley while also addressing a critical Northrop
underground facility named of course Tehan. Did you share with you any other information on other
facilities that dealt with this issue in US or abroad? Yes he mentioned there's a base here in
California near Anzo California and there's another base in the deserts of I believe he said
Tacone or Tejon. I believe he said Tejon. I believe that's the word that he used there's a base
near Lancaster and Palmdale area and near this is very funny it's near Northrop there's an
underground area out there too that he was aware of and but he particularly mentioned and stayed
focused on Anzo California there's some underground areas up there too that they're
researching some of this technology and at March Air Force Base through Project Red Light.
Of this network of proposed facilities one possible dumb stands out from the rest
Edwards Air Force Base. As mentioned in nearly every project Edward serves as home to the
412th test group a major range and test facility base. Witness Ed a vetted and accomplished USAT
veteran claimed Edwards and the Nevada test and training range specifically Nellis Air Force Base
in Area 51 slash Groom Lake which is actually run by an Edwards 412th detachment runs a joint UFO
reverse engineering program. Outside of the claims of Hamilton's informants regarding Edwards and
craft stored in underground installations there are many fascinating testimonies and
avenues of research we might pursue. Remember how one source of Hamilton claimed to have worked on
the Ant Hill installation under Tejon in Antelope Valley. The source claimed the installation's
command center existed under Edwards Haystack Butte. This sentiment is shared by the controversial
and enigmatic whistleblower Dr. Michael Wolfe who claimed as a UAP consultant to the National
Security Council he heard live extraterrestrials were kept under Haystack Butte Edwards.
Test facilities are built into an on Haystack Butte east of Edwards indeed these facilities
are run alongside a primary field lab at the remote northeast corner of Edwards by the Air Force
Research Lab's Aerospace Systems Directorate. AFRL Edwards 412th Test Wing and NASA Flight
Research Facility work together at Edwards to plan conduct analyze and report on all flight
and ground testing of aircraft weapon systems software and components as well as modeling and
simulation for the USAF. Since facilities are built into the Butte it is no stretch to assume
locations are built under the Haystack Butte and remember this USAF AFRL rocket propulsion
division and their rocket test labs on Lumen Ridge were named by Hamilton and his informants as
featuring a stiff location connected to the wider Edwards underground complex. This lab features a
number of underground missile silos but the extent to which the Air Force Propulsion Laboratory
underground is unknown however and very interesting numerous studies out of the Air Force Rocket
Propulsion Lab have shown a heavy interest in anti-gravity propulsion is this location definitely
UFO legacy related unknown but a strong argument can be made from witness testimony and lastly a bit
north to Antelope is China Lake Naval Air Weapon Station as we showed in a 1964 Army Corps of
Engineers study titled Feasibility of Constructing Large Underground Cavities Inyo County which
shares territory with China Lake was considered for underground purposes the underground cavity of
interest was 4,000 feet deep and it is unknown if this facility was built however numerous witness
testimony may give us some idea as we also discussed above Dr. Sotter had been given testimony by Navy
Veterans stationed at China Lake who not only claimed the facility goes one mile deep but
weapons work is conducted on quote weapons more powerful than nuclear weapons end quote
Hamilton himself also had a source who allegedly served as an aerospace engineer consultant to
NASA and Colonel this unnamed Colonel claimed he worked at an underground installation at China
Lake Edwards Air Force Base and the Nevada test site these locations were according to the source
connected via a maglev train system from which he would often enter through a dump beneath White
Sands missile range I put stock in this testimony due to speaking myself to a witness who claimed
to travel via underground train system from a fort in Texas to White Sands this source an army
officer in the 2010s claimed the train speed and acceleration were so great it reminded him of his
fear of flying we also have Ed and the mention of Edwards and the NTTR China Lake is not mentioned
in his testimony however it stands to reason the very near China Lake which serves as the
Navy's largest single land holding representing 85% of the Navy's weapons and armaments are DT&E
programs could likely see crossover TUO programs with the USAF if these programs exchange nonhuman
craft materials and research it stands to reason such transactions would be conducted underground
to maintain secrecy I would in the future like to do an entire video on China Lake so hang tight
corporate and military installations do indeed exist below Antelope Valley again the question
is do these sites deal with technologies of unknown origin and exploitation programs Antelope
and Palmdale are home to aerospace juggernauts and myriad DOD RDT&E and MRTFBs and have for decades
featured numerous testimonies of ARV underground installations and claims of UFO legacy programs
due to these factors plus witnesses who have told me they have traveled below the Antelope Valley
I am inclined to conclude such an anthill if so to speak does in fact exist to work on UFO legacy
programs the vast majority of our focus today is the American Southwest and endless claims of
underground UFO research in RDT&E but quickly I do want to look east we have already discussed
STIFs used by the CIA and NSA under cover of the Army and Navy respectively but what about UFO
STIFs for this reason I would like to look to the United States Capitol and address the deep
underground command center the DUCC was a stiff below the Pentagon that was never built however I
am not sure just how true that statement is now an acknowledged stiff under the Pentagon does indeed
exist the national military command center responsible for generating emergency action
messages to missile control launch centers nuclear subs and battlefield commanders this
NMCC was set to serve as an interim facility for the never built DUCC the deep underground command
center was first proposed in 1963 three weeks before the assassination of JFK declassified top
secret documents dated 7 november 63 detail former secretary of defense Robert McNamara proposing
meetings to discuss the national underground command center these plans for the national or
deep underground command center detailed a complex command center built 3,500 feet below
Washington DC this location would be built to withstand direct hits of 200 to 300 megaton
warheads that penetrate 70 to 100 feet below the surface before detonation two separate
facilities were proposed an austere facility with 10,000 total square feet and 5,000 operating
square feet accommodating 40 people at a depth of 3,500 feet this would cost over 110 million
dollars or 1.1 billion today the second was a moderate sized facility with 100,000 total
square feet and 50,000 operating square feet accommodating 300 people at a depth of 3,500
feet this would cost 310 million or over 3.2 billion dollars today the joint chiefs interestingly
proposed the austere facility to be too small the operation capsule of the center would be
near the pentagon and an access elevator would descend 3,500 feet underground from the pentagon
installation this may seem like a massive undertaking however the memorandum stated quote
there is little argument that the construction of a du cc is technically feasible end quote to
quote the memo again quote the nature of the du cc regardless of the initial size selected
lends itself to later expansion end quote once linden b johnson took office a second
memorandum was issued 16 january 1964 from wall rosto to mcgeorge bundy stating the du cc concept
should proceed rosto served as a senior advisor to both kennedy and johnson an additional memo
followed the same day from mcgeorge bundy to carl kason showing planning for the du cc had been
going forward since the early days of the johnson admin kason was deputy special assistant for national
security affairs to kennedy and possibly stayed on to advise on the du cc program the memo additionally
stated kason having spoken to herald brown read the du cc brown served as director of defense
research and engineering from 1961 to 1965 a last top secret memo dealing with the du cc
was issued by the bureau of the budget estimated between 1963 to 1964 40 plus percent of this
document is redacted was the du cc ever built conventional sources would say no however i
would argue indeed it was this confidence of mine is from sources who have described to me
firsthand encounters within an enormous cavernous facility below the pentagon but how does such a
proposed facility deal with the subject of ufo's if the du cc was indeed built it is a publicly
denied site therefore we can feasibly reckon if the site does exist it deals with subjects critical
to us national security since the 1954 atomic energy agreement materials pertaining to ufo's
have been misclassified as trans classified foreign nuclear materials as relayed by physicists robert
sarbacher in 1950 ufo programs exist and their classification resides even higher than that of
the h-bomb on this channel i've spoken in-depth at ufo legacy program operations are the ultimate
secret deep-six clandestine set of programs deeply embedded within special access programs
the pentagon resides near crystal city crystal city features eight of ten of the us's top defense
contractors in the small neighborhood is where two-thirds of federal contracts are awarded by
this location holds primary offices held by northrop grumman, lockheed martin, boeing,
wrathion, general dynamics, l3, aerojet, rockadine, and more all contractors i highly suspect engage
with ufo programs the neighborhood also holds or is in close proximity to numerous ffr dcs i
believe are up to their eyeballs in ufo programs these include the center for naval analyses
institute for defense analysis aerospace corporation and rand homeland security operations
analysis center additionally crystal city is home to myriad do d research agencies including
darpa office of naval research and air force office of scientific research i do believe similar to
the antelope valley crystal city's amalgamation of do d entities ffr dcs and contractors is a
major center of operations for ufo legacy programs perhaps due to limited airspace and usage of mrt
fbs unlike the american desert in southwest crystal city is where the majority of ufo related usaps
are created maintained and kept secure this is a thesis i will continue to explore in depth in
the future if crystal city does indeed majorly engage with clandestine ufo unacknowledged special
access programs it stands to reason such a classified effort involving do d private and
semi-private entities would require a massive underground facility
the idea of a major network of underground tunnels connecting dumps nationwide is often
scoffed at i have no idea if the entire nation's stiffs are connected via tunnel system but a
strong argument can be made complex systems of interconnecting stiffs exist in the american
southwest and east coast after all in a document obtained via foya by dr richard solder we even
have hard numbers from the military industrial complex of the estimated number of total personnel
needed to build and operate a deeply buried hundreds of mile long tunnel system and this is the order
of 7800 to 8700 people and we also have a hard estimate for the total expenses associated with
constructing operating and maintaining such a system the neighborhood of 17 billion dollars over
a 10-year period many such acknowledged tunnel systems exist like the department of energy
sprawling tunnel network below the nevada test and training range but let's continue to explore
the feasibility of massive tunnel systems connecting bases dozens or hundreds of miles apart the
technology for such undertakings does indeed exist the most likely candidates are nuclear
subterranes and tunnel boring machines tunnel boring machines are huge cylindrical mechanical
boring machines that tunnel through rock and soil chewing out circular tunnels that may range in
diameter of up to 35 or more feet these goliaths are powered by electrical motors that have a
cutting head equipped with various metal attachments made of super hard alloys that cut through rock
as the head rotates the head rotates and the cutting tools dig into the rock ripping and gouging it
away the excavated rock or muck is then passed by a conveyor assembly to the rear of the machine
where it can be hauled away by truck or train according to the pacific gas and electric company
utilizing a robin's company tbm to bore a 22 000 foot long 24 foot diameter tunnel it took a rate of
five to six miles per year however in better conditions some tbms could bore at a rate of 10
miles per year or greater roughly double the rate of the pacific gas and electric company this would
mean dumbs below china lake and edwards could be connected in as little as five and a half years
nuclear subterranes were originally designed by low salamos national lab sound familiar the
patents for such machines were filed technical documents were written but the project seemingly
faded into obscurity these fascinating machines work by melting through rock and soil leaving
neat solidly glass lined tunnels by vitrifying materials heat is supplied to the system via
compact nuclear reactors that circulate liquid lithium from the reactor core to the tunnel face
melting rock in front of the machine cooled liquid lithium then circulates to the back of the machine
alongside the exterior of the machine to cool surrounding rock as the machine is forced forward
patents were first proposed by the atomic energy commission in us energy rnd in 1972 and 1975
further nuclear subterranean patents in 1975 detailed tunnel systems of 12 meters or more in
diameter all but one of the inventors listed in the three patents above were from low salamos
additionally at 1973 low salamos study titled systems and cost analysis for a nuclear subterranean
tunnel machine a preliminary study concluded nuclear subterranes to be a cost efficient
solution to satisfy us transportation tunnel demands similar to how we deduce numerous
dumps were built around 1961 to 1989 we can make similar deductions regarding connective
tunnel systems if such an enormous tunnel system exists it likely saw construction
beginning around the early 1970s 1974 to be exact the bechtel corporation is an american
engineering procurement and construction management company founded in the u.s bechtel has often
been targeted as one of the u.s corporations responsible for dumb tunnel systems in 1974
bechtel released a report titled research program plan for meeting tomorrow's needs in tunneling
and excavation final report this report states quote the demand for tunneling and underground
excavation for national defense needs is believed to be large some examples of underground defense
facilities include hard rock silos command posts communication systems personnel shelters storage
and power generation facilities end quote interestingly enough the same report shows
a massive list of novel ground disintegration techniques in r&d stages in 1972 the governing
board of the national research council formed the u.s national committee on tunneling technology
this committee functioned as the quote united states focal agency in the field of tunneling
technology to assess and stimulate improvements in tunneling technology applications and to
coordinate us tunneling technology activities with those of other nations end quote by 1977 this
us n t t had six major subcommittees including the deep cavity and tunnel support systems committees
us n c t t partnered with numerous corporations agencies and academics of particular interest
to this channel these include both sandia national labs and bechtel memorial institute i've accused
bechtel of engaging deeply with uap legacy programs including operations at the dugway alleged dumb
in 1981 in 1982 the us n c t t sponsored a project called workshop on technology for the design and
construction of deep underground defense facilities this was done at the behest of the nuclear defense
agency and co-sponsors included the bureau of reclamation army usaf navy do e and national
science foundation including others the 1982 report of the workshop detailed the need for
400 miles of tunnels ranging from 2500 to 3500 feet for various purposes including housing nuclear
missiles these tunnels were to be up to 16 feet in diameter with quote interconnecting passageways
and add its horizontal passageways for storage living quarters and other needs end quote the
location of such a network of tunnels according to the new york times would be quote probably in
the desert of the western united states such tunnels and installations were to be powered
via fuel cells or nuclear reactors and as we saw in 1963 the us army corps of engineers was very
serious about nuclear reactors powering self-contained underground installations fuel cells may also be
of special interest here seen as in 1984 bowing published the results of a study that set forth
plans for power generation in deep icb m bases using iron chlorine fuel cells to generate power
the usn ctt called for mobilization of this plan in the late 80s and early 90s the committee called
for tunnel boring machines to be utilized starting in 1985 for carving tunnel systems by 1988 usn ctt
was publishing reports titled tunneling and underground space technology discussing underground
missile systems ranging between 3000 to 8000 feet underground during this period in the 80s numerous
contractors i have directly accused of being involved in ufo legacy programs would aid in the
construction of deep underground missile bases and tunnel systems of course we must assume some if
not many underground nuclear missile bases may have served as clandestine rd tne facilities
this should not come as a shock as we have already discussed us intelligence agencies
utilizing underground military sites for secret operations such corporations include bdm who was
awarded in 1985 a contract to conduct quote intercontinental ballistic missile deep basing
communication study end quote as well as trw who had since 1968 been involved in studies into high
speed ground transportation tunnel design and cost analysis both corporations were later on
bought by northrop grumman the 1985 bdm study is of particular interest here remember if you will
earlier that same year 20 to 25 may 1985 to be exact bdm mclean also held the advanced
theoretical physics conference the meetings of this exclusive group were classified utilizing
doe controls notes of this conference were released by attendee oki shannon who formally
served as manager for special projects at low salamos national labs this mclean virginia secure
facility group discussed myriad aspects of ufo's including legacy programs and a major
engineering project under bobby ray inman viewers of my channel will absolutely recall inman
mentioned often as a senior ufo legacy operations member at this time the vice president of bdm
was former major general and founder of us army inscom albert stubblebine stubblebine will be
mentioned again in this project including how he was accused of engaging in ufo craft storage
and material exploitation while head of army intelligence at fort hachuka arizona interestingly
the advanced theoretical working group was spearheaded by us army colonel john b alexander
who from 1982 to 1983 reported directly to stubblebine additionally recall how philip j
corso claimed a ufo working group was established in the mid 80s according to corso this group
saw ample funding from us army inscom general stubblebine it is interesting to think of
possible ties between this icbm deep basing communication study and albert stubblebine
and the advanced theoretical physics conference and a possible ufo working group accused by philip
j corso throughout the 1980s us industry and government additionally demonstrated a keen
interest in life support systems for massive tunnel systems underground icbm installations
as well as deep and i mean deep underground bases this can be demonstrated in a november 1985
contract to uni tech technologies hamilton standard division for life support and chemical
biological agent mitigation system on small icbm deep basing programs end quote us army
corps of engineers as well as us nctt have even discussed provable technologies times and prices
to construct such massive tunnel systems yet no data exists on any large-scale tunneling project
this may force us to look deeper like at the low-profile records of the bureau of reclamation
who during the 20th century excavated hundreds of miles of tunnels up to 28 and a half feet in
diameter at depths of hundreds to thousands of feet quite often the bureau would utilize
classic tunnel boring machines numerous inside sources to dr richard solder have informed him
that some of the bureau of reclamation's tunnels have doubled as cover for other clandestine
underground tunnels to quote underground and underwater bases quote from a hypothetical
point of view what is to stop a tunnel boring machine from tunneling off of an aqueduct tunnel
deep underground and striking out secretly to make a clandestine tunnel it takes about 10 men
to operate a tbm and in good rock you can count on as much as 15 miles of tunnel per year end quote
for decades rumors of underground railroad systems specifically maglev trains have been
inseparable from testimony regarding dums and ufo's as we discussed earlier in the antelope
valley section such a concept was related to ufo researcher bill hamilton by some of his many
informants but just how true are these rumors of a high-speed electromagnetic railroad system
often described as a pneumatic system aka a train system operating in a partial vacuum tube
to begin what is maglev maglev trains are a type of rail system levitated by electromagnetic
rather than employing wheels maglevs feature numerous benefits to conventional railroad
systems including higher speeds superior acceleration and deceleration lower maintenance costs
improved gradient handling and lower noise but are much more expensive compared to traditional
systems maglevs have even reached top speeds of 375 miles per hour and pneumatic tube trains are an
early form of transportation or air vacuum to move containers or vehicles through tubes while
minimizing friction new york's first subway system was an underground pneumatic tube transport
line created by alfred elie beach earlier in this project we spoke of nazi scientists being
sequestered by air material command in the us to work on underground complexes i would also
like to draw attention to herman kemper kemper was a third rike engineer who created a concept for
the roarbon the roarbon was a system of magnetic levitation trains designed to speed through
underground vacuum tunnels at hundreds or even thousands of miles per hour suspended passenger
cars on magnetic fields would be propelled through tunnels negating any friction of wheels rails and
air kemper's research began in 1934 by 1938 he envisioned berlin connected to other european
cities with cars traveling at 600 to 1000 miles per hour it is unknown how far the nazis pursued
this concept nor is it known if kemper was recruited by operation paperclip a feasible
hypothesis here is kemper was contracted by the us to help build early iterations of maglev pneumatic
systems maglev ufo's and dumbs are often lumped together as conspiracy however maglevs are not
a niche concept since the 1960s maglev technology has seen numerous patents and by the year 2000
even lockheed martin entered into agreements with trans rapid international usa to develop
maglev technology in the us in fact by the early 1990s an acknowledged multi agency national maglev
institute was formed this joint effort by the doe and us army corps of engineers sought to quote
define the role maglev could play in us transportation system to assess the potential for
maglev in the domestic market to recommend a strategy for the introduction of maglev technology
and to identify the most appropriate federal role end quote this nmi published a report in the early
nineties titled compendium of executive summaries from the maglev system concept definition final
reports this series of reports sought to determine nationwide maglev system availability by the year
2000 some interesting players appear in this document this includes a joint project with
bechtel hughes aircraft and mit which employs a uark for the army a second report saw work by
bowing aerospace and general dynamics to study superconducting levitation to top this off a third
study saw joint efforts into superconducting magnets performed by grumman corporation pre northrop
betel memorial labs and honeywell all contractors mentioned above in above board maglev technology
research i highly spect have for decades attempted the reverse engineering and material exploitation
of non-human craft however rumors of clandestine maglev systems far precede the 1990s and 2000s
dr richard solder as well as bill hamilton first heard whispers of such systems in the 1980s solder
himself referenced reading reports of underground rail systems to area 51 from mercury nevada and
the naval surface warfare center corona division discussion of these rail systems would even pop
up in online ufo forums around 1997 look at the name on the top of these testimony reports a j
kradoc in disgust in the dugway project kradoc is an oil tycoon operating in libya that helped
steven greer in the 1990s with c setty kradoc brought greer in my opinion incredibly valuable
and relevant information regarding area 51 moving many ufo operations to dugway so if maglev systems
existed far before ufo legacy program defense contractors engaged with the acknowledged national
maglev institute where and when might these systems have been developed and of what technology
the mid 1960s saw established engineering professors from the office of naval research
army research office and booze allen hamilton established the international society for terrain
vehicle systems or istv real quick in the mid to late 20th century i believe booze allen hamilton
was as involved in ufo legacy operations as northrop grumman is today but that's another project
for another day the istv s working group coordinated research around high speed underground tube
train systems at the same time of the istv s the u.s department of commerce established a
multi agency panel focused on high speed underground tube train systems the panel produced a 1967
report titled rnd for high speed ground transportation which states quote regardless of the system
adopted it can be assumed that extensive tunneling will be involved it is recommended that the
department cooperate closely with other agencies in planning and funding research into this area
to provide an extra stimulus for rapid development end quote of massive consequence to this investigation
in 1972 robert salter of the rand corporation published a study titled the very high speed
transit system in this study ran set out a continental deep underground concept that was
described as quote electromagnetically levitated and propelled cars in an evacuated tunnel end
quote the study makes some truly shocking statements including quote speeds as high as 14
thousand miles per hour have been examined and studies by the rand corporation in an example
case of a direct link between los angeles and new york requiring only 21 minutes of transit time
the speeds required will certainly be on the order of thousands of miles per hour on long
haul links end quote i believe salter additionally makes a critical statement that lends strongly
towards the subject of ufo legacy dumps salter states quote because of the rather considerable
expanse of the tunnel it is probable that the first vhst will not rely on a direct nonstop la and
white link but rather one that stops at two intermediate staging points end quote these
intermediate staging points are apparent when throughout this video i have made and will continue
to make in the hamilton map segment the argument that ufo dump networks feature central hubs these
hubs if so to speak are connected to one another and branch to local smaller dump facilities think
of a railway central station connecting to other major stations while also featuring alternative
lines to small local stops much of this technology was based on work conducted by robert goddard
father of modern rocketry's 1945 vacuum tube transport system as well as michael minovich the
physicists behind introducing gravity assisted propulsion around planetary bodies 1961 work
deep underground tube shuttle salter and ran strongly recommended placing the vhst underground
to remove interference with environmental factors such as grade crossings weather and
infrastructure and also observed that it was not appreciable harder to tunnel at great lengths
underground than at shallow depths within this study is a map of the proposed vhst that corresponds
strongly to build hamilton's alleged western state dump network but more on this later around a
similar time frame to this ran study is the high speed ground transportation initiative this group
became operational in the 1960s performing most of their work in the 1970s before slipping out of
public view in the 1980s for a period of 10 to 15 years the united states saw enormous efforts into
rnd and feasibility and desirability of high speed underground tube shuttle train systems
entities involved in this program are countless including trw general dynamics mit southwest
research institute behind project stargate general electric nasa army navy and batel memorial
institute i have mentioned some of the work published under this initiative before including
trw's 1967 study titled abstracts of concepts of high speed ground transportation systems
remember trw was purchased by northrop grumman and long considered as the contractor behind the
majestic 12 like entity project zodiac for the high speed ground transportation initiative trw
additionally prepared a study titled state of the art tube vehicle system in 1970 this study
discussed tube systems and tunnels as deep as 3000 feet underground using trains that would
travel at speeds of 450 miles per hour similar to the dumb tunnel concept no admission of maglevs
connecting stiffs is publicly available however there is an overwhelming body of historical
evidence the us and defense contractors have had a keen interest in high speed underground
transit systems traveling at least as fast as a commercial airliner
to close off our investigation i would like to return to 1992's cosmic top secret by bill
hamilton in this masterpiece of a book hamilton provides a map of underground facilities and
tunnels provided to him by one tal in 1990 some data here is from thomas c aka thomas castillo
which is an extremely controversial source with the dulce new mexico story so instead
let's go ahead and analyze the map this network spans the american west and southwest with major
installations listed in southern california new mexico and colorado as expected earlier we find
edwards air force based connected to myriad locations including numerous small marks labeled rnd
we also see a supposed underground base marked cat this is of course catalina island fascinating
how in 2023 and 2024 discussion began to swirl of an underground extraterrestrial or human base
off of catalina island we also see area 51 as a major reference with connections to tonipa
an installation infamous in ufo lore as well we also find interesting solo mark dumps not connected
in this alleged system including fort hutchuka arizona a location i estimate is involved heavily
in ufo programs remember if you will fort hutchuka holds a defense agency major range and test
facility base a critical core facility called the joint interoperability center army intelligence
at fort hutchuka was previously run by us army inscom founder major general albert stubblebine
stubblebine and inscom have been accused by myself in numerous projects amongst others as
engaging in ufo crash retrieval storage and material exploitation therefore it is really
no surprise to see hamilton's map designate fort hutchuka as a dumb location on the map are many
locations in new mexico including the controversial dulci los alamos and sandia slash curtland
the latter two we know have underground facilities indeed the same extents to shayan in colorado
intriguing to note here is an installation in chihuahua mexico this subject wouldn't be touched
jake barbers romana clay called sentinels of ether this project describes a 2004 blue on
blue ufo retrieval team fire operation in which the clandestine team flew into a disguised base
hidden in the mountains of chihuahua what happens when we start to compare this map to others
see now a comparison between hamilton's dumb network and rand's vhst see the interesting
direct route shared across the two maps through the northern area of arizona and new mexico
additionally observe how southern california sees routes split to both southern california
near san diego and northern california near sacramento before continuing north to portland
in washington also notice connections to denver on both locations outside of shayan mountain
complex denver colorado is home to an enormous underground fema complex this is likely a continuity
of government or c o g complex my true interest lies in comparing the hamilton piece to defense
laboratories and centers across the united states here we will not find groom lake amongst
other select facilities but i believe this comparison is of critical importance if you
will please forgive the maps not lining up the 1990 map is scaled differently than the 2019
do d map so the two are not merged to scale perfectly aligning the two maps brings extreme
interest to both dumb locations as well as markings on the hamilton piece that are labeled rnd
since this map pertains to connected underground ufo installations we can assume by the maps legend
these locations do not employ dumps but are still focused on ufo legacy rnd as expected southern
california brings a massive amount of locations of interest even outside of the antelope valley
to the southwest in los angeles lies a tremendous amount of do d rd t ne labs ffr dcs like rand
and aerospace corporations and uarks like the usc institute for creative technologies numerous
other locations outside of the antelope line up between the two maps we have discussed throughout
this investigation including fort hachuka shyan mountain colorado dugway and its two mrtfb's
low salamos white sands missile range sandia and curtland air force base from referencing do d labs
we can also learn curtland and its proven underground facilities stand out even more curtland
additionally holds the air force research labs space vehicles directorate and directed energy
directorate of note shared on these maps albeit slightly shifted is the fourth defense estate
microelectronics activity in northern california in do d terms fourth estate describes non-military
parts of the do d these include the defense contract audit agency defense contract management
agency and the defense finance and accounting service fourth estate agencies and field activities
all watching this video might recognize our darpa and the defense missile agency prior to this
investigation i had never come across mention of a dumb below the d m e a so this is a terrific
point of research moving forward let's also reference more of the non-connected rnd locations
on hamilton's map that exist as acknowledged do d rd t ne facilities in nebraska on both maps
we find identification of the us stratcom university affiliated research center the
university of nebraska national strategic research institute viewers of my work know
uarcs and ffr dcs are cornerstones of uap legacy program so it is interesting to see
hamilton identify a uarc as a ufo rnd location all the way back in 1992 that would not be founded
until 2012 in oklahoma we observe fort sill as ufo rnd and the naval surface warfare center
indian head special weapons division mccallister detachment as ufo storage i have come across
both of these locations in my research however it is interesting to see an nswc location labeled as
storage especially after the testimony of randy anderson and the off-world technologies division
at the naval surface warfare centered crane in northern kansas we observe overlap of a ufo
research facility this facility is the us army leavenworth research unit in texas we find fort
hood army research unit as a ufo research location however it is interesting to see this facility
is not marked as a stiff especially after numerous testimony relayed by and research done by lennard
stringfield the hamilton map deserves an entire investigation of its own and possibly i will do
so with dr sotter because after all this map does accuse dumbs of existing at all locations we
have previously discussed as well as many that warrant further investigation including fort
stockton fort urwin vandenberg a fb chocolate mountains aerial gunnery range 29 palms hutchinson
air force station and peterson air force base as well as the cities of kingsley nebraska
tulsa oklahoma and riverton wyoming i have spoken to dr sotter and he has spoken directly with bill
hamilton regarding this map so just maybe he can aid in further dissecting of these locations
hey guys it's gerb and if you're still with me thank you so much for joining me in this
at this point hour 20 hour and a half investigation into dumbs as many of you know and as many people
have been looking forward to this project dumbs are a passion project of mine i speak about
installations under dugway under the antelope valley under the north of tejon and hellendale
facilities in numerous videos uh i think probably my last four videos straight i've mentioned one
if not multiple of these locations as we made it to the end of this video i'd like to thank again
dr richard sotter for all of his excellent research now this video is going to be doing things a little
bit differently of course in every single one of my videos i include my show notes in the video
description or a link please bear with me a couple days here as i have not only compiled my research
links for this video but also every single document that i can find that dr richard sotter
has included in his three books so every single defense technical document every single army
corps of engineer document every single document i could find which there's hundreds so please allow
me a couple days to compile all that and deliver that because i think it's excellent to read through
all of those and please read through dr richard sotter's books they're they're excellent as we
know from today the subject of dumbs is very vast it's almost impossible to know where and when to
start there is a tremendous amount of literature on deep underground facilities for continuity of
government use for icbm silos for just general underground installations accessible by vertical
or inclined shaft there's also a tremendous amount of information specifically starting post 1974
with bechtel on large-scale tunneling systems and conventional and unconventional the blasting
methods this would be a tunnel boring machine or a nuclear subterranean as a conventional method
or explosives or possibly nuclear detonation as unconventional and also a lot of literature on
maglev technology i know these three subjects of interconnected dumb bases are often scoffed at without
a lot of research but this is a very serious subject and at least i would say focused in the
southwest and the american desert and the east there are probably large networks of
dumps this would include new mexico arizona southern california possibly up to connecting
to dugway and colorado and then a network out east including the warrenton army training facility
camp piery camp david uh the du cc which i wager highly exists and so forth now of course
let's treat this video as a part one a part two will be a project with dr richard solder
i spoke to him the other week for about two to three hours and he graciously agreed to come on
the show and talk more about dumps i think what's really interesting here is there are numerous
informants just like bill hamilton had that have told him about installations and facilities and
perhaps he can tell those on our project together and relay them because he said some to me in our
conversations that he hasn't repeated publicly that are indeed quite interesting also when bill
hamilton was still alive dr richard solder talked to him and length about his network of dumps maps
so possibly for an hour hour and a half we will dive into that so please look forward to a dr
richard solder project coming in the future and please also look forward to the show notes you
know uh another thing i'm doing is i'm planning to build a website no sign up needed it's not the
dpi archive but i'm planning to uh put up a website where i have videos transcripts of the
videos and all research links so i'd like to put those there the only reason i plan to do this is
to make it easier to access all the materials i put forth with my research but i want to know
what everybody thinks about dumps specifically networks of dumps dumps are not a controversial
things dumps do indeed exist and from numerous testimony whether that be lennard stringfield
whether that be testimony to solder to hamilton to myself there is a incredible argument that many
of these facilities dump facilities engage in uap legacy programs i like to think back to the
testimony of ms for example which led to a tremendously fruitful venture into the dump under
dugway and of course we even have a specific entrance to that facility other research from other
informants can be done on this another thing i did differently in this project of course is i
hardly interject when witnesses have spoken to me about testimony or given me testimony i thought
it prudent in this investigation just when speaking about various stump facilities and to summarize
these include i've spoken to individuals who have been in networks under the antelope valley
in location under texas that connected via underground train that went so fast it reminded
this army veteran of his fear of flying to white sands missile range as well as the what we might
call the deep underground command center out east this is a location deep under the pentagon how
deep i don't know however i have good insight this is a facility or at least there are facilities
here that are run by the cia directorate of science and technology if that sounds familiar to you
that was the cia office that blocked the material transfer in 2008 from lockheed martin to
the osap program and that was the 1953 kingman crash but the networks of dumps are what are
so interesting to me for example harkening back to the story of ed and the nevada test and training
range and edwards air force base there's other testimony about connections in bases in southern
california to to area 51 tone upon the nevada test and training range if i could ever get ed
to sit down in a room and believe me i've tried to speak to him the first thing i would ask him
if there's connective tunneling systems and what type of vehicles if there are that connect these
two places now absent in this video of course i talked about in the beginning are the stories of
bob lasar the stories of dulcy base and thomas castillo and the story of phil schneider i believe
that these in that these witnesses these subjects are very controversial so i didn't include them
because of their controversy but because when i have such controversial claims i think it prudent
to investigate those and vet those and try to determine any sort of objective information
from those when we can so you know s4 for example i do believe s4 is a facility that does indeed exist
does it have extraterrestrial or non-human technology i don't know uh an individual i've
spoken to that went to s4 talked about colored lines where to walk but he didn't see anything
that would say non-human technology but then again he was not privy to the entire base but
because of that i would like to focus on subjects like s4 maybe dulcy base um and maybe other locations
as well and i will do those in a separate project with this project i wanted to take as objective
of an approach as i could i wanted to combine the facts we know about dums about tunnel systems
about maglev systems and relay those two stories of the ansolope valley stories of locations out east
i mean there is a tremendous amount of facilities i didn't get to cover here that i would like to
revisit so again as i spoke about in the project with dr richard solder this is just kind of a taste
into dums i do think this is one of the most consequential subjects of of ufo legacy programs
you know like i said and i'll say it again most underground facilities as we see from the u.s army
corps of engineers and other documents were first proposed as a continuity of government a cog or a
icbm silo facility and we know that is partially true in the large fema underground center near
denver colorado which everybody knows i'm from colorado so that's near where i am so
the clandestine operation when did these start as we talked about the dums there's a good argument
that in post 1961 when the u.s army corps of engineers really started to look into underground
facilities uh massive ones ranging up to up to in some documents 8 000 feet underground into the
late 90s i think this is when the vast majority of underground installations were built when were
the connective tunnels built if these do exist which i believe many locations do feature connective
tunnels this of course as we saw in the bechtel report with conventional and unconventional
tunneling methods probably started around 1974 between 1972 and 1974 a whole host of tunneling
committees and institutes were set up to investigate massive tunneling systems and of course
following in the 80s into the 90s we see the same thing with maglev technologies so i i think the
order of operations here is likely the dumbest built maybe a decade later connective tunnels are
built and maybe a decade after that the full train systems are implemented i mean in the 90s we see
the national maglev institute and we see corporations like grumman like general dynamics like betel
doing aboveboard maglev research so this could likely imply they had been doing clandestine
research into similar projects into electromagnetics long before then so it's a it's an incredibly
fascinating subject especially when you start to look at the bureau of reclamation and what dr
solder has relayed from his informants about the bureau of reclamation this was possibly an
aboveboard tunneling system in the american southwest that featured clandestine secondary
tunnels to bore out whatever was needed and as we saw in the list i scrolled through there are
hundreds of tunnels from the bor that in the mid to late 20th century and some of these are
hundreds of miles long some of these are thousands and they range in depths from
just underground to up to near a thousand feet so when dr solders informant relates to him that
10 men can operate a tbm and a good tbm in good conditions can chew through up to 10 miles per
year i do think this is a likely candidate you know this harkens back to other ufo legacy program
funding operations how we what we get can make educated guesses via irad sole source contracts
id iq and utilizing legitimate contracts to skim off funds for ufo legacy programs now
again i want to know what everybody thinks if there are people here who have been to underground
facilities massive deep underground facilities please reach out to me i would love to hear
about your experience i will respect your anonymity but if you have a location a facility to describe
or an experience in such a facility please reach out to me i would love to talk to you but
again guys let me know in the comments what you think this has been a long spiel almost 11 minutes
i think i've rambled quite a bit please remember to like and subscribe on the video and remember
guys i do have a patreon i don't gate keep my content in my opinion this might be stubborn or
this might be a bit narcissistic i think the content is important to view so i'm not going to gate
keep anything because i would like all of my research all of my projects and all my research
materials to be publicly available to anybody so the patreon is there to support what you think
the channel is worth not to lock off any content so with that guys i have a couple projects coming
up i'm really really really darn excited about i'm trying to think about how i'm going to juggle
these but about three projects on the immediate mind i'm already working on including and that
includes the project with dr richard solder so i will catch everybody soon and thank you so very
much for joining me bye now